Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
Today we're going to take a quick break from a running mathematical calculations and we're going to
talk about assumptions.
Now we specifically chose not to start this section with assumptions so that we wouldn't get overwhelmed
Starfall like too much theory because we already talked about statistical significance and there was
kind of enough for us to get into the world of hypothesis testing and Rano first hypothesis test as
you can see we successfully came up with a result.
Well assumptions are still very important and it's a good idea to talk about them now so that we are
more in tune with what's going on when we're proceeding further with this course.
So let's have a look.
All right assumptions of this test because what we've been doing so far hypothesis testing is actually
called Zed test or that test we're running does that test because we look at the table and we're calculating
that score.
So the first assumption of that test is that the sample is selected at random.
Very important assumption which often is not taken in the correct manner.
And this is going to give you like a small overview of what I've seen in my experience and how you can
avoid making that mistake.
I think I think it's important to be aware of the possible pitfalls that exist with selecting random
samples.
It sounds like a very easy thing to do to select a random sample.
Let's say let's look at an example let's say you're a government and you want to find out what percentage
of your population walks to work what percentage of the population rise bicycle rides and then how many
what percentage uses public transport what percentage takes drives a car to work.
And so what you do is you get a list of people who live in your country which you might have through
a census or something like that.
And then you for instance you put into Excel you add a new column and you put a random variable like
a 1 or a 0 and you select 1000 people at random so that is a great first step.
You have ensured that the way you selected these people are random because you applied a random algorithm
that's great.
And a lot of people leave it at that.
OK.
So let's say say that we are OK with select a random sample.
Ok here's a sample.
Here the people that look up the phonebook these are the numbers and then they outsource to an agency
to go and call up these thousand or 2000 people to get their insights into how they travel to work and
they think at this stage that that's it.
The assumption has been fulfilled that that's not the case.
The thing is that you need to make sure this assumption holds throughout your whole testing process.
And I'll give you like will extend that example to see how what pitfall the in this case the government
could have really easily fallen into.
And as I mentioned I've seen this happen before.
So what do you normally see in a phone book or in that database that you have phone numbers off.
You normally see people's landlines their home phone landlines.
How many people do you know who use a landline who still have a landline.
I'm not sure.
I think in the U.S. is probably even more extreme.
But in Australia it's like I know maybe one maybe two people out of all the people I know who who even
have a landline.
So what do you think the result is going to be when this agency and the agency usually doesn't really
just do just the job that they've been told to do that they've been subscribed to do they don't actually
assess the validity of the results and things like that they just go and call people and do what.
And you know check the boxes and that's it.
So what do you think is going to happen.
Probably a lot of the people that they call will probably not first of all not pick up and that is usually
taken into account the government might provide a larger sample.
Taking into account that probably 50 percent of the people won't pick up or 70 percent of people won't
pick up.
But nevertheless most people are they're going to call through this to on their landlines are people
who have landlines are people who still use landline phones and those are other like I don't know maybe
somebody who works from home who has a business who has to have legally a landline or most likely is
just it's an older demographic.
People who still have landlines because they're used to them for sure.
This approach is going to capture a very tiny amount of millennials a very small amount of like people
between what are millennials like 25 to 35 or something and people in a very small amount of people
35 to 45 like generation what is that Generation Y.
I think so they're going to capture very few people of the more younger population.
So the analysis the sample is going to be skewed towards older demographics and at the same time the
people who picked out the sample will still be thinking oh we've selected a random sample.
Well that's not the case because you did select a random sample but through the process of your testing
the way you approach the problem the sample is no longer random and the insights that they're going
to get back is let's say they find out that 70 percent of people drive to work while those insights
are about not about the whole of the population the sale of Australia in this case.
But they are insight into just the people that this sample represents so the older demographic maybe
70 percent of people over the age of 55 drive to work or wherever they're going to their hobbies if
they're retired.
So that is a very important thing to understand that through the process just the way you conduct analysis
you might actually skew your sample and even though you have selected at random it is no longer a random
sample.
It is a biased sample.
So there you go that's about selecting random sample so be careful of that.
Always follow through towards the end and make sure that the sample that nothing happens that makes
the sample become nonrandom.
And a quick question like Blits question what do you think if you called people's mobiles.
Would that be a random sample.
So that's another tricky question.
It's already much better than calling landlines.
But oftentimes even that's not it depends on the problem but often don't even that's not a random sample
because when you get the answers think about it when you get the answers your sample represents people
who answer questions when called on mobile phones.
So and that's probably not exactly identical to all of the people there might be a bias that for example
more introverted people will not answer a question even if they're told this is the government or this
is a poll or a survey.
They might just not ask answer a question on the phone or they're less likely and so therefore even
when you call people on the phone like that or busy people for example.
Businessmen don't want to have time to answer that question.
And so if you call people on their mobile phones or they might not even pick up.
So your sample is biased towards people who pick up their phone and who do answer questions.
Maybe that's no big deal for journalists.
Maybe the fact that your sample is biased towards extroverted people rather than introverted people
doesn't affect you.
And also because the variable that you're exploring you know whether they walk to work or they drive
to work.
It doesn't depend on whether a person's Internet or an extra.
That's fine.
In that case you can consider this a random sample but if it does depend on that for instance if you're
biased towards non businessmen for people who do pick up their phone maybe in that case it's going to
it does somehow affect the people that you're excluding could somehow affect in a different way the
variable that you're exploring and therefore your samples are no longer random.
So even in that case you have to be very very careful how you select your samples so you have to think
these through and just increasing the sample size.
That's a funny thing here that just increasing the sample size doesn't solve these problems.
If introverted people are not picking up at a thousand person sample they're not going to be picking
up a 10000 person sample not a Internet.
People don't pick up but they're less likely to interact with somebody who's calling them up and asking
them about their opinion on something.
So hopefully that makes sense and that's why you have to really think through how you'd like to sample.
Well that's easy part but how you actually go about ensuring what process you undertake to get the information
that you're after.
Much easier when you don't have to when you're dealing with business processes and things like that
when it's not people that you're dealing with in those cases you have a bit more control and just go
into the business and you get the insights that you need.
Maybe you're like serving parts that are coming out of your manufacturing plant and you want to see
how many of them are have defects or even don't.
And so in that case it's much easier because you just it's unbiased.
You go and you just look at the bit harder when you're dealing with things that are out of your control.
OK so that was a long note on samples but hopefully they'll help you avoid some of these very dangerous
pitfalls that exist in hypothesis testing.
Observations are independent.
This one is another very intuitive one.
It just you just have to be careful about that.
For instance in terms of surveys and stuff like that if you go out and like it doesn't have to be a
or it could be you're serving your customers like a lot of business a B2C and you might be working a
b c business and you might be end up working with data like this for instance if you surveyed your customers
and you wanted to find out whether they like your mobile phones that you're producing or not.
So what would happen is in how how could this be non-independent or let's say you're doing a live there's
like a crowd of people you just you just walking up to them in the street and you're like asking them
well when they wouldn't be independent if you ask like a person and then you ask another person and
another person and the next person hears all of this.
So one person says Yes I love your mobile phone the next person says Yes I love your mobile phones the
next person says Yes I love you more phones and then the fourth person he is shared his he feels his
peer pressure to say that he does love the mobile phones even though his opinion might be different
he might not love them as much or he might hate them or whatever but just because everybody else around
him said that and it's a known fact this is a this is just the way the human brain works that we're
social creatures and we we are susceptible to we might be some might call it pill peer pressure but
it is a psychological phenomenon when a lot of people around you do one thing or say one thing you are
more likely to say that same thing.
And so when that fourth person when you get to the fourth person their opinion has They're not going
to voice their their true opinion they're going to voice a biased opinion or the opinion that they've
just copied off other people or an altered version of their opinion and therefore you're not going to
get the true result.
And even though you might it might have been like a random sample and everything else is great.
But in this case your observations are not independent and you might get a a an incorrect result.
So very important to be careful about that.
So hopefully an example that makes this a bit clearer what we're looking out for when we're making sure
that our observations are independent.
And the third assumption is that the population standard deviation is known or the sample contains at
least 30 observation.
So we're going to talk about this more and the further trials but I'll just give you a quick heads up
that this first condition the population standard deviation is known as you saw we were.
Every time we were running on time we did run a hypothesis test proves the we knew the standard deviation
and we used that to calculate the standard the sampling distribution.
If we don't know the standard deviation of the population that's also fine.
But in that case we need to run a T-test.
It's called a students.
It's based rather than being based on the normal distributions based on the student's t distribution
and we'll talk about it.
It's not complex at all.
You'll see it's very simple.
It's another very simple concept.
We'll talk about it further down in this course but in this case you run a t test instead of a test.
And the thing about the study sample size here is that in the case when you have 30 observations or
more or the t distribution is actually very close to a normal distribution.
So in this case it doesn't even matter if you if you have three observations or more it doesn't matter
if you run a t test or As'ad test it won't matter.
It only matters when you have less than 30 observations in a sample.
So we'll talk more on that later for sure when we get to the T-test.
But for now those are the assumptions of the Zad test.
So a sample is like the random observations are independent and the population division is is known
or the sample contains 30 observations or more as you can see there very simple very intuitive assumptions.
But at the same time it can be tricky if you don't look out for them properly throughout your whole
experiment.
So there we go.
Hope you enjoyed the senatorial and I'll see you next time.
Until then have analyzing.